.\" 
.Dd September 12, 2021
.Os
.Dt GENFSA 1
.Sh NAME
.Nm genfsa
.Nd create a random finite state acceptor
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm genfsa
.Op Fl hvz?
.Op Fl e Ar weight
.Op Fl f Ar weight
.Ar states
.Ar symbols
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm genfsa
utility constructs a finite state acceptor with the given number of states
and with an alphabet of the given size in
.Tn AT&T
tabular format.
There is no guarantee that every state is reachable.
For each possible edge, it appears with a user-specified probability.
There is also a user-specified probability for whether a state is accepting.
There is only a single initial state,
which is always the lowest-numbered state that has outgoing edges.
.Bl -tag -width "-e weight" -compact -offset
.It Fl e Ar weight
Generate edges with a probability of
.Ar weight
percent.
.It Fl f Ar weight
Assign accepting status to states with a probability of
.Ar weight
percent.
.It Fl h, Fl \&?
Print a usage message and exit.
.It Fl v
Print the version number and exit.
.It Fl z
Enable generation of do-nothing edges.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
The command:
.Dl genfsa -e15 7 4
will create an acceptor with seven states
over the symbols A, B, C, and D.
There is a 15% chance of each possible edge occurring.
.Pp
The command:
.Dl genfsa -zf100 10 27
will create an acceptor with ten states
over the symbols A-Z and aA,
and will also include do-nothing edges denoted by 0.
Every state will be accepting.
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Ex -std genfsa
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr plebby 1
.Sh HISTORY
A
.Nm genfsa
command first appeared in version 1.0 of the FSA Tools package.
.Sh BUGS
In order to avoid filesystem writes, only a single acceptor is generated.
This means that generating several acceptors in quick succession
requires special care to ensure the random number generator is seeded
differently.
